Is This the Place to Write?
technicat
technicat
May 24, 2015 · 2 min read
Image for post
Image for post

I started writing online around 2004, jotting a handful of software essays on my web site while in between jobs/contracts/careers, and realized that while I thought it was going to be easy, it’s actually a struggle if you don’t keep doing it. For a while, as a regular exercise, I wrote more regularly on epinions, posting exactly fifty reviews. Epinions went downhill after their second or third acquisition (by an eBay company), but, as depicted by archive.org above, I started actual blogging in 2008 after switching to an ISP that hosted Wordpress (dreamhost).

Platform makes a difference — I started writing almost daily, sometimes just a photo and snippet, sometimes something more substantial. But then I got tired of dreamhost mail outages, figured six years was long enough to stick with an ISP that wasn’t really improving (in fact, they dropped support for my drupal installation), and switched to arvixe, beginning a methodical process of trashing my blog.

I did migrate it to arvixe under a different name, but then found out their wordpress installation wasn’t as easy to use (errors when uploading from the iPhoto folder, which was my normal process for blogging photos), and recently they said I was violating their TOS by enabling the Wordpress backup feature (and pointed me to their doc on how to enable backups to disable backups. Go figure). I was unable to download the backup files, anyway, so that feature is pretty useless. Anyway, I told them I uninstalled Wordpress, and they cheerfully responded thanks, I hope that solves your problem. At least their mail works.

In the meantime, I migrated my blog, once again, to tumblr, by successively running some open source scripts. I figured that’s what the cool kids are using. Now I’m thinking, like Facebook, that’s what the cool kids were using. And also I suspect tumblr is going to be another in a long line of web sites ruined by yahoo. I’ve seen no improvements, a few unimprovements, and more flashy ads. And by flashy, I mean blinking and animated.

But the biggest problem with tumblr is I don’t use it. Uploading photos, sharing via apps, reblogging are all cool, but unlike Wordpress, the interface does not invite writing. Most of my writing has involved cutting-and-pasting and photo captions. In fact, this particular article is longer than anything I’ve written directly on tumblr. So that’s a good start. Maybe medium is my new writing platform.
